---
title: Test page
author: Mark Kirby
layout: post
date: 2014-07-31
excerpt: How working in 90 min blocks with lots of rest increased my productivity
url: /2016/test-page/
categories:
  - post
---

# Heading one

Areas of user-generated content, with HTML that has come from a CMS.

## Second-level heading

Main page headings are h1 elements, so futher headings within this scope should start with h2, an example of which appears directly above. More than one may be used per page. Consider using an h2 unless you need a header level of less importance, or as a sub-header to an existing h2 element.

### Third-level heading

The header above is an h3 element, which may be used for any form of page-level header which falls below the h2 header in a document hierarchy.

#### Fourth-level heading

The header above is an h4 element, which may be used for any form of page-level header which falls below the h3 header in a document hierarchy.

## Grouping

### Ordered list

The ol element denotes an ordered list, and various numbering schemes are available through the CSS (including 1,2,3… a,b,c… i,ii,iii… and so on). Each item requires a surrounding <li> and </li> tag, to denote individual items within the list (as you may have guessed, li stands for list item).

1. This is an ordered list.
2. This is the second item, which contains a sub list
  1. This is the sub list, which is also ordered.
  2. It has two items.
3. This is the final item on this list.

Final item.

### Unordered list

The ul element denotes an unordered list (ie. a list of loose items that don’t require numbering, or a bulleted list). Again, each item requires a surrounding <li> and </li> tag, to denote individual items. Here is an example list showing the constituent parts of the British Isles:

* United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland:
  * England
  * Scotland
  * Wales
  * Northern Ireland
  * Republic of Ireland
  * Isle of Man
* Channel Islands:
  * Bailiwick of Guernsey
  * Bailiwick of Jersey

Sometimes we may want each list item to contain block elements, typically a paragraph or two:

* The British Isles is an archipelago consisting of the two large islands of Great Britain and Ireland, and many smaller surrounding islands.
* Great Britain is the largest island of the archipelago. Ireland is the second largest island of the archipelago and lies directly to the west of Great Britain.
* The full list of islands in the British Isles includes over 1,000 islands, of which 51 have an area larger than 20 km2.

## Text-level Semantics

### Links and anchors

The a element is used to hyperlink text, be that to another page, a named fragment on the current page or any other location on the web. Example:

[Go to the home page](/) or [return to the top of this page](http://url.com/ "Title").

### Stressed emphasis

The em element is used to denote text with stressed emphasis, i.e., something you’d pronounce differently. Where italicising is required for stylistic differentiation, the i element may be preferable. Example:

You simply *must* try the negitoro maki!

### Strong importance

The strong element is used to denote text with strong importance. Where bolding is used for stylistic differentiation, the b element may be preferable. Example:

**Don’t** stick nails in the electrical outlet.

### Code

The code element is used to represent fragments of computer code. Useful for technology-oriented sites, not so useful otherwise. Example:

When you call the activate() method on the robotSnowman object, the eyes glow.

The following exampes shows the code element used in conjunction with the pre element (with the applicable syntax highlighting applied automatically):

    <?php
        echo 'Hello World!';
    ?>
    
### Horizonal rule

Maybe it won’t be that bad, he told himself. The lie was comforting enough to get him through the rest of the night’s shift.

---

The Carlton AllLander drove Dudley home just after dawn. Like the astronomer, the vehicle was old and worn, but perfectly capable of doing its job. It had a cheap diesel engine, common enough on a semi-frontier world like Gralmond, although its drive array was a thoroughly modern photoneural processor. With its high suspension and deep-tread tyres it could plough along the dirt track to the observatory in all weather and seasons, including the metre-deep snow of Gralmond’s winters.

## Tables

Tables should be used when displaying tabular data. The thead, tfoot and tbody elements enable you to group rows within each a table.


The Very Best Eggnog | Serves 1 | Serves 24
--- | --- | ---
Milk | 1 quart | 2 quart
Cinnamon Sticks | 1 | 2
Cups Sugar | 1 ½ cups | 2 quart

There ends the table.